Section 7 & 8
=============
##Why Benchmarks are used and the pitfalls of benchmarks

- The first and major problem is that for processors the code they run to test is not always optimized for those specific types or architecture. While that argument might sound silly it doesn’t effectively test the hardware. Imagine that a benchmarking program that isn’t optimized for any specific hardware, that benchmarking software isn’t making use of the hardware’s potential ability. Rather it is testing how well code can be pushed through the hardware. This is not an acurate measure of the processor becuase one benchmark might say that an AMD processor is better then an Intel processor but with optimization the Intel processor can out preform the AMD processor when both have proper optimization.

- The next problem with benchmarks, more so for CPU benchmarks, is the use of multiple cores. This is important for AMD processors as generally they have up to 8 physical cores to process information. This will help the computer to multitask by dividing up the instructions to the different cores of the CPU. The biggest problem is that most benchmarks do not test multitasking capabilities.  Most benchmarking software really can only test 2 cores effectively in order to be fair to a majority of CPUs. This has started to shift in a more positive direction with some programs being able to test up to 4 cores effectively. With the newest Intel chip actually having 8 physical cores along with AMD already having a long line of 8 cores already, it can be assumed that the benchmarking software will then shift to being able to test more than 2~4 cores. 

- The last problem that benchmarks do not test is the disparity between operating systems. While the benchmarking programs have to worry about optimization for hardware they also have to worry about optimization for the operating system. The way a program sends instructions to the CPU also depends on the operating system. This can make a certain program run slower of faster depending on how well optimized it is for that specific operating system. An example of this is how well Itunes runs on windows vs. an apple computer. Itunes is developed by apple and thus will be optimized for an apple computer. Windows can run Itunes but it does not run it well. This is not because the hardware on a mac is better rather that the program itself is optimized to run better on an apple computer than a computer that runs windows.

- The most problematic thing about benchmarks is that rather than telling you what the processor is mostly used for, the price of that processor, and the power consumption of that processor; they put out an arbitrary number that is a comparison point for the different processors. This is, however, better on graphics cards because the comparison is generally on frames per second but still some benchmarks use an arbitrary score. While the benchmarks will show the difference between the two processors in terms of processing power, minus the problems listed beforehand, does not give a measurable difference in numbers. What is the difference between a processor with a result of 9,000 and another one with 11,000? The simple answer is 2,000 but what does that mean in terms of processing power, power consumption, and multitasking? Even more so what is the difference between one tht scores 7,000 and one that scores 6,996? Does the difference of 4 even matter with such high numbers?

- Unfortunatly even with all the problems of benchmarks most people still use them as an entry point of determining what processor to buy. The reason why even people who know of the pitfalls still use benchmarks is because of the lack of information available about a processor when buying one. 