#####Descartes

- argued there are two distinct kinds of substances
	- mind and body
- metaphysical duelism  


Mind events are caused by sensations triggered by properties

<br />
**Where is the mind?**

Where are these mental states taking place? Clearly not outside the body.

**Cartesian Dualism**

- the body works entirely like a machine
- the mind is non-material
	- it does not follow laws of nature because of the existence of freedom of the will, without which moral values would be meaningless.
	- the mind controls the body but the body can influence the mind 
- Descartes denied that animals could feel pain, because they did not have minds. He denied that animals had reason or intelligence, but did respond to stimulation of their sense organs, but these could be explained mechanistically.

**Problems with Dualism**

- the mind is anentirely immaterial thing without extension in it whatsoever; and, conversely the body is an entirely material thing without any thinking at all.
- Mental states are not described using primary qualities. They have no size, shape, or form.
- The dificulty arises when it is noticed that sometimes the will moves the body. Motions in the body can cause the mind to have sensations.
- How does interaction then ocurr between these two substances?
	- the mind must be able to come into contact with the body in order to cause it to move, yet contact must occur between two or more surfaces, and, since having a surfaceis a mode of extension, minds cannot have surfaces.
	- How can the motion of particles in the eyetraveling to the optic nerve to the brain cause visual sensations in the mind, if no contact or transfer of motion is possible within the two?
- Cartesian Dualism sets the agenda for philosophical discussions of the `mind-body problem`.

---
`When taking class notes ask questions at the end.`<br />
`Movie suggestion: [bladerunner] [Her (2014)]`