Juan Vallejo
Philosophy question 4

What is the difference between primary and secondary qualities and what philosophical problems did that create?

Primary qualities are those properties that can be interpreted only by the application of geometry and mathematical calculation.

Primary qualities tell us what really is. They are those interpreted through mathematics and represent characteristics that are always present, regardless of changing factors through our senses and human interpretation.

"if reality is captured by mathematics and geometry, then the real properties of things are just their size, shape, velocity, acceleration, direction, weight: those characteristics treatable by numbers, points, and lines."

To contrast primary properties, secondary qualities are those perceived through our senses. It is the effect of our interaction with the reality that surround us.

"Our instinctive habit is to consider the apple to be red, the oatmeal hot, cookies sweet, and roses fragrant."

Although present, these properties cannot be proven to truly exist. 

"...that external bodies, to excite in us these tastes,
these odours, and these sounds  demand other than
size, figure , number, and slow or rapid motion, I do
not believe; and I judge that, if the ears, the tongue,
and the nostrils were taken away, the figure, the
numbers, and the motions would indeed remain,
but not the odours nor the tastes nor the sounds,
which, without the living animal, I do not believe
are anything else than names, just as tickling is precisely
nothing but a name if the armpit and the nasal
membrane be removed..."

Primary and secondary qualities represent those properties that can be attributed to things, and those that cannot. Primary qualities are those that Galilean mathematical science can handle such as size, figure, number, and motion. These qualities are the basic composition of the objective world. Secondary qualities exist only subjectively within us. They are simply the cause of primary qualities in things.

A philosophical problem that these properties create is that in order to understand the world, it must be stripped of the qualities that are experienced -- the secondary qualities; but where do these qualities truly exist if not in us? if they occurr in the mind, then what is the mind, and where is it located?

The main problem one tends to focus after the forementioned statement is the lacking connection between the mind (metaphysical) and the body which is present in this reality. There is a lack of knowledge pertaining to the relation between the mind and the mathematical world of the new science. "How is this 'inside' related to the 'outside'?"

Could future advancements in computation and discoveries in sentient technology help reveal the missing link between the mind and the physical world? If secondary qualities lie within us and are uniquely interpreted by each individual independent from this reality, could the mind still be responsible for creating a notion of these properties, or could they simply be a result of our brain's synaptic interpretation of the distinctive data gathered through each of our senses?