**Gita: Chapter 1**

We began class by discussing the Gita. In the first chapter of the Gita, `two emotions are mentioned in the description of anxiety.`

`Arjuna says he doesn't see any good that comes from the battle. He makes an argument and gives reasons on why it is wrong to engage in batlle.` Women of the family become polluted, there is an increase of unwanted population, and all kinds of community projects and family welfare will be devastated as a result of it.

**Sanja** describes what Arjuna is going through which is overwhelmed with grief and sorrow. Additionally, `Arjuna experiences anxiety and panic.`

In chapter two, Arjuna says it would be better to live begging than a king. Additionally, `Arjuna describes himself as confused about his duty and lacking composure because of his miserly weaknes`. Arjuna is a warrior and a man of action, not an intellectual. What he is being told by Krishna is not something he is able to apply to his life. From a point of wisdom, Krishna presents the kindest kind of yoga which is the yoga of knowledge. `Krishna says that there is no reason to feel sorry. Those who posses widdom do not feel grief`. Krishba is saying that there is no reason to experience sorrow.

There is a famous statement in the Gita: *"The self slays not, nor is slain"*. `This is the insight that Krishna is asking Arjuna to have`. In the Gita, the nature of the `Atman` is to witness. Not an agent of action, it is a non-doer. This is repeated throughout the Gita.

Moreover, we can think of the mind consisting of layers. One is consciousness and there is also mental activity-witnessing consciousness which includes `emotions and imaginations`. Beneath all of it and the foundation, is the self that `Krishna` is describing to `Arjuna`. 

`For the self, there is neither birth nor death at any time. Another analogy is giving up ols ones. For example, the soul similarly accepts new materials bodies, giving up the old ones. The self is recycled` and reincarnated for the Atman. The self can never be cut to pieces by any weapon. It is unbreakable and insoluble. Krishna is asking Arjuna to bring himself into awareness. Krishna says there is no reason to grief.

Another argument that Krishna gives to Arjuna is `in regards to Arjuna's worry of death`. Warrior is an opportunity for engagement to fight in religious principles. For a warrior there is not a better opportunity. If you don't perform your duties you will lose your reputation as a fighter, and this reputation will be dishonest; `his enemies will describe him in unkind words and scorn his ability. His reputation will be ruined`.

Working without concern for the results of action is `karma yoga`. Krishna's representation of karma yoga is that this path `can protect one from the most dangerous anxiety`. He tells Arjuna to be free from all dualities and from all anxieties for gain and safety. `The word for duty is Dharma`. Therefore Krishna is telling Arjuna to act his duty. Sanjaya is describing his duties without paying attention whther his actions will fail or succeed. He says, *"never concern yourelf with the cause of the results of your activities*". He is talking about being conscious and to never be attached to the results of doing your duty.

Krishna says a person who is not disturbed in the mind admits to threefold miseries which includes the psychological, physical and interpersonal suffering.

**What questions does Arjuna learn from his conversations with Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita?**

**Patanjali** (Yoga sutra)

We resumed class by talking about `Patanjali yoga sutra`, the yoga of discipline of the mind. When a sincere seeker approaches an elightened teacher, with an attitude of `discipleship` and with the right spirit of enquiry, at the rigtht time and the right place, `explanation of yoga` takes place.

`Yoga` happens when there is stilling of the movement of thought; `without effortless suppression` in the indivisible intelligence in which there is no movement.

In light of non-volitional, non-moving and therefore spontaneous and choiceless awareness, the undivided intelligence (consciousness, sentience) with its apparent and passing modifications of movememnts of thought within itself is not confused with nor confied to any of these. Then the `seer` is not split up into one or the other of the states or modifications of the mind, and `exists by itself and as itself`.

At other times, when yoga does not happen and when the mind is busily occupied with the movement, there is a cloud of confusion in the undivided, homogeneuous intelligence. In the shadow of that cloud, there arises false identification or cognition of the movement of the `mind-fragment` and hence distorted understanding.

**Yoga Vasistha**

It is believed by some Hindus that this type of yoga answers all of the questions that arise in the human mind, and can help one to attain `Moksha`, or liberation.

We then read a little on the story of `Hastamalaka`.

---
**Remarks**

*You can have intelligent, cognitive activity, without any consciousnes at all*.  
*At the core of the mind, lies consciousness*.  
*Arjuna is a warrior, not a `Brahmin`, or intellectual.*  
*By drawing attention from thought of action and consequence, you remove fear. Fear is the source of all mental illness.*  
*In Backta yoga you suppress your own ego*.

Krishna argues to Arjuna that he should fight because it is his duty and responsibility. He tells Arjuna that `the wise don't grief for the living and the dead. The self is indestructible, it is neither slayed nor does it slay`.

- `Brahmin` is the name given to an intellectual.
- `Atman` means the self. Its role is to witness in life, not to participate.
- `Dharma` is the word for duty.
- `Seer` is a homogeneuous intelligence which is ignorantly regarded as the separate experiencer of sensations and emotions, and the separate performer of actions.
- `Moksha` is freedom from bondage, joys, and sorrows of your psychophysical being. The experiencing of yourself as the witness, rather than the participant.
- `Aphroism` is a very concise statement.


```
Give reasonss as to why Arjuna is persuaded to go to war, for the **test**
```