**Gita**

We began class by discussing the Gita. In the first chapter of the Gita, `two emotions are mentioned in the description of anxiety.`

`Arjuna says he doesn't see any good that comes from the battle. He makes an argument and gives reasons on why it is wrong to engage in batlle.` Women of the family become polluted, there is an increase of unwanted population, and all kinds of community projects and family welfare will be devastated as a result of it.

**Sanja** describes what Arjuna is going through which is overwhelmed with grief and sorrow. Additionally, `Arjuna experiences anxiety and panic.`

In chapter two, Arjuna says it would be better to live begging than a king. Additionally, `Arjuna describes himself as confused about his duty and lacking composure because of his miserly weaknes`. Arjuna is a warrior and a man of action, not an intellectual. What he is being told by Krishna is not something he is able to apply to his life. From a point of wisdom, Krishna presents the kindest kind of yoga which is the yoga of knowledge. `Krishna says that there is no reason to feel sorry. Those who posses widdom do not feel grief`. Krishba is saying that there is no reason to experience sorrow.

There is a famous statement in the Gita: *"The self slays not, nor is slain"*. `This is the insight that Krishna is asking Arjuna to have`. In the Gita, the nature of the `Atman` is to witness. Not an agent of action, it is a non-doer. This is repeated throughout the Gita.

Moreover, we can think of the mind consisting of layers. One is consciousness and there is also mental activity-witnessing consciousness which includes `emotions and imaginations`. Beneath all of it and the foundation, is the self that `Krishna` is describing to `Arjuna`. 

`For the self, there is neither birth nor death at any time. Another analogy is giving up ols ones. For example, the soul similarly accepts new materials bodies, giving up the old ones. The seld is recycled` and reincarnated for the Atman.

*At the core of the mind, lies consciousness*.

*Arjuna is a warrior, not a `Brahmin`, or intellectual.*

- `Brahmin` is an intellectual.
- `Atman` means the self. Its role is to witness in life, not to participate.

```
Give reasonss as to why Arjuna is persuaded to go to war, for the **test**
```